{
	"What is computer? What are the significant characteristics of computer?": "Computers are defined as devices that use the discrete signal for their processes which are in the binary form. In Digital computers, the input is coded in the form of zeroes and ones to get a more accurate result. An example of a digital computer will be a calculator in which all the coding is already done, and you get a correct result which is not possible in the case of analog devices. The important characteristics of computer include the speed, accuracy, diligence, versatility, reliability and memory etc.",
	"Describe the evolution of computer. Also, explain the generations progressed through the evolution of computer": "The computers can be divided in five past generations, i.e., depending upon the technologies used. The five generations of computer are: First generation: These computers used valves and all the components were joined by copper wires. Due to large size of the components and due to the facts that the components had to be spaced apart as the valves dissipated a lot of heat, the computers were very bulky and required huge electric power, air conditioners, maintenance and space for their installation.",
	"List and explain each generation of computer evolution": "First generation: Comparatively large in size as compared to present day computers, Generated lot of heat, they were not consistent and reliable as the valves tended to fail frequently. Low capacity internal storage, Individual, non-related models, Processors operated in the milliseconds speed range, Internal storage consisted of magnetic drum and delay lines. Second generation: Smaller in size compared to the first generation computers, Generated a lower level of heat as components were much smaller, Greater degree of reliability because of solid state technology, Higher capacity of internal storage, Use of core storage instead of magnetic drum and delay lines, Related series of processors –the family concept, Processor operated in the microsecond speed, High cost direct accesses storage",
	"What are the criteria to categorize the computer?": "The classification of computers is based on the criteria such as according to Purpose, according to Technology Used, according to Size and Capacity. According to the utilization of computer for different uses, computers are of two types: general purpose and special purpose computers. According to the technology used, computers are of three types: analog, digital and hybrid computers. According to the size and memory/storage capacity, computers are of four types: super computer, main frame, minicomputer and microcomputer. General Purpose Computers: Computers that follow instructions for general requirements such as sales analysis, financial accounting, invoicing, inventory, management information etc. are called General Purpose Computers.",
	"Categorize the computers with respect to technology":"Analog computers: Analog computers are special purpose computers that represent and store data in continuously varying physical quantities such as current, voltage or frequency. These computers are programmed for measuring physical quantities like pressure, temperature, speed etc. Digital computers: Digital computers are mainly general purpose computers that represent and store data in discrete quantities or numbers. In these computers, all processing is done in terms of numeric representation of data and information. Although the user enters data in decimal or character form, it is converted into binary digits",
	"How to classify the computers according to the size and memory?":"Supercomputer: These are the most powerful computers made till now. They are made to process huge amounts of data. Many users can access them at the same time. They are primarily used for scientific research that are mathematically intensive such as in aerospace, satellites, chemical, electronics, petroleum, nuclear power industries. Supercomputers are used in weather forecasts.  Mainframe computer: The largest type of computer commonly used is mainframes. Mainframe computers are used where many people in a large organization need frequent access to the same information, which is usually organized information of one or more large databases",
	"Give the names of computers and their applications based on size and capacity":
	"Super Computer: Some of the examples of supercomputers are CRAY3, CRAY-XMP-14, NEC500, PARAM 9000 and PARAM 10000. Application areas are Weather Forecasting, Petroleum Exploration and Production, Energy Management, Defense, Nuclear Energy Research, Structural Analysis, Electronic Design, Real-time Animation, Medicine. Mainframe computer: Some of the examples of mainframe computers are IBM 3090, IBM 4381, IBM 4300 and IBM ES-9000.",
	"What are the application areas of computers?":"Businesses- Businessmen make bar graphs and pie charts from tedious figures to convey information with far more impact than numbers alone can covey, Education- Most good schools, colleges and various universities have extended the use of computers as many educators prefer the ‘learning by doing’ method., Buildings- Architects use computer animated graphics to experiment with possible exteriors and to give clients a visual walk-through of their proposed buildings"
}